Overview of Bike Sharing Analysis

Data analysis was performed on a dataset from a bike sharing business that is successful and running in New York City.  This analysis is to determine if it  is a viable project for the city of Des Moines,IA.  Tableau is the tool that was used for this analysis to assist in displaying the results.  Several 
worksheets were created and a story to illustrate and share results and data.  


# Results

The complete story is listed below as a link in Tableau Public.  The link shares the story created with several worksheets to confirm the success of the
ride sharing business in New York City.  

[link to dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/views/CitibikeChallenge_16489112382720/Challenge-Story?:language=en-US&publish=yes&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)


The following charts were produced from the dataset to assist with the business case for Des Moines, IA with this bike ride sharing concept. 




In the Checkout Times for Users image, it is apparent that the longer the period of time a customer has checked out a bike, the amount of bikes 
sharply increases.  At the end of a two hour mark, the utilization peaks.  


Within the Trips by Weekday per Hour image, the illustration shows that the peak times for renting a bike are around the 8 am hour and close to the end of 
a workday at 5 pm, Monday through Friday.  Weekends appear to have a constant flow of users between 10 am and 6 pm.  

In the Trips by Gender heatmap, there is a strong use of bikes by Males vs Females.  And it would seem the males are using these bikes during the already 
discovered peak hours of 8 am and 5 pm, Monday through Friday.  

User Trips by Gender by Weekday heatmap shares the data that Males utilize the bike service most and they do so between Monday through Friday.  In this
heatmap, it is also evident that these male customers are more likely to be subscribers.  


This pie chart, titled 'Customers' is a great display that shows the majority of customers are subscribers.  1.9 million, of the 2.3 million that use the
bike sharing service are subscribers.  

August Peak Hours is a horizontal bar chart that shares the information that there are several users of the bikes within the month of August.  The 
summer weather helps keep the bikes busy.  



Summary
The results of this analysis indicate that a bike ride sharing concept is a popular venture that could be very profitable in Des Moines, IA.  I would also run 
additional visualizations and analysis.  One other test I would perform would be to compare the age of the customer to the type of customer so that it might
be found that the younger generation are the subscribers. If the majority of subscribers were younger than it would ideal for this business concept because
they would be long term customers.  A second form of analysis that I would like to run is to create a map of the start and stop stations to illustrate what 
routes are most popular and to identify where in Des Moines, IA this concept would be the most successful.  
